having had a look at the visual basic editor and some of the tools it has available,
let's now move on to actually write in a macro macron is essentially a subroutine,
so we'll be discussing the different likes of subroutine that you can create within the
module.
When creating the macro solution.
It's almost inevitable that you won't want to put all of your code in one single some
procedure.
A more typical approach is to put all the code relating to one stage of your operation into
a separate some procedure and then toe have one main,
some procedure which brings it all together.
So let's say that we're about to create a macro,
and we have sat down and designed this various steps that we want to perform,
and we've broken them down into three main areas.
Initialization processing and finalization.
So let's create a diagram that shows the functionality that we want Town macro toe.
I'm just going to use insert smart,
aren't hierarchy.
Let's just go with the plane organization chart so we can dilate this box so this would be
our main,
some procedure,
which will be the macro itself.
Then we'd have a sub procedure for initialization,
another one for processing and another one to finalization.
And then,
as I said,
this one would be the macro.
So let's give it a an outline and making the outline thinker.
Okay,
so that's the structure that we're aiming for.
Let's now look at how we will write code that reflects that structure that's going to the
Exercises folder.
And if you remember from Section one,
we're going to put most of our Mac rose into this Adan called GCS word VB a training and
open and adding just right click and choose open.
Then let's go to develop out visual Basic and in the Models folder.
Let's open up the second model right in Macron's in VB.
So the first sub procedure that we want to create will be our main sub procedure,
which will be the macro to define a macro,
you use the optional keyword public bullet by sub,
followed by the name of the macro,
and we're going to use the prefix section zero to this is video tutorial.
03 macro A.
That's a prefix,
and then we'll call it main with my press enter.
The program completes the sub structure for me by putting in the answer the readability and
then gonna press the tab key on on the editing toolbar,
I'll just show you which one is edited.
This one is the standard toolbar,
and this is edited on the editing tool,
but you have actually got an invent button.
But as you can see in brackets that the shortcut tab is much more convenient on the other
way out Dent his shift from time.
I now want to call my subordinate.
Some procedure is.
And to do that I use the optional keyword call followed by the name of the sub procedure.
So I'm gonna full of the same name in convention.
020 p on initialization.
That was our first step.
Then we had processing on finalisation.
So those are the three subordinate some procedures which my main macro will call.
And now,
of course,
we need to define these.
Let's be lazy and just copy this code.
Paste it here we can then use out dent,
which is shift tab to pop it back there.
And we just replace the word cool with private sub.
And if I then just paste that over the word cool.
We don't have the skeleton off our three sub procedures.
So that's the key difference between a macro on a sub procedure,
which is called by a macron.
The macro itself uses public sub and the some procedures,
which is called use private sudden by default.
Within a module.
Some procedures are public,
so if this is admitted,
it becomes a public some procedure anyway.
Let's just put some code in there,
so we've actually got something happening.
So again are tres tab on.
Just use MSG Box and in quotes initialization complete.
Okay,
lets just copy that Kings of the other subs.
This will then be processing and organization.
So there's our basic structure.
Let's save our changes and move back to Word,
either by closing the Baby E or all 10 11 and on the developer toolbar.
Let's get cold,
Mac Rose.
Here's the macro that we wrote as our project at the end of the last section.
And here's the macro we've just written and,
of course,
maybe run.
It just cools.
There's three.
Some prestige is and displays our chemistry books.
Message Macro is a public sub procedure placed inside a model private sub prestigious
placed in the module can only be accessed by other sub procedures in that same module to
run one sub procedure from within.
Another,
use the optional keyword cool.
Pull it by the name of the some procedure.